docs/how-cards-work.md, before:

# How cards work

## File structure

### Naming

Each card has a `group` and a `method` (sometimes just called `name`), which when combined create a `cardName`.

For example:
- group: `person`
- method `basic-information`
- cardName: `person/basic-information`

### Location

For the build system to find a card you need to create a `card.vue` in the appropriate directory.

All the cards are stored in the [cards](../cards) folder, and subfolders based ond the `cardName`.

For example:
- [person/basic-information/card.vue](../cards/person/basic-information/card.vue)

### Required files

When creating a new card there are some required files:

- `card.vue` - The main entry point for the card when it gets built.
- `data.json` - API data used when developing the card.
- `state.json` - State used when developing the card.

Not strictly required while developing but could error when built:
- `_i18n/<lang>/<cardName>.yaml` - The locale file for the card. (You can use `yarn lint:locales` to check if any locale files are missing)

## Data

### Context data

Cards get external data when they are rendered. This is passed in as `contextData` and is available in the root card component as `this.$options.contextData`

It includes things like:

- `cardData` - API data from `parladata` for this particular id,
- `cardState` - Saved state from the card (like current tab or filter, usually used when embedding).
- `urls` - URLs to other parts of parlameter (like assets, site, data, ...)
- ...

### Format of `cardData`

```json
{
  "url": "<the actual url from when the data was fetched>",
  "id": "<id specified in the card>",
  // data fetched from the url
  "data": {
    "results": { ... }
  },
  // if there was any error fetching data, otherwise false
  "error": { message, error, statusCode, code } || false
};
```

### Common mixin

The top-most card component needs to import the [`common`](../cards/_mixins/common.js) mixin. This sets up some data required for the template render and imports the `card-wrapper` you need as the main card component, that creates the main card frame.

### `cardInfo` property

The root component can have a `cardInfo` property that is used to tell information to the templating engine later.

```js
cardInfo: {
  doubleWidth: true,
},
```

## Query params

### `id`
...

### `locale`
...

### `template`
* `share` - when the card is rendered standalone
* `embed` - when the card is embedded in a different site

Commit message:

update docs: add warning for using the window object

docs/how-cards-work.md, after:

# How cards work

## File structure

### Naming

Each card has a `group` and a `method` (sometimes just called `name`), which when combined create a `cardName`.

For example:
- group: `person`
- method `basic-information`
- cardName: `person/basic-information`

### Location

For the build system to find a card you need to create a `card.vue` in the appropriate directory.

All the cards are stored in the [cards](../cards) folder, and subfolders based ond the `cardName`.

For example:
- [person/basic-information/card.vue](../cards/person/basic-information/card.vue)

### Required files

When creating a new card there are some required files:

- `card.vue` - The main entry point for the card when it gets built.
- `data.json` - API data used when developing the card.
- `state.json` - State used when developing the card.

Not strictly required while developing but could error when built:
- `_i18n/<lang>/<cardName>.yaml` - The locale file for the card. (You can use `yarn lint:locales` to check if any locale files are missing)

## Data

### Context data

Cards get external data when they are rendered. This is passed in as `contextData` and is available in the root card component as `this.$options.contextData`

It includes things like:

- `cardData` - API data from `parladata` for this particular id,
- `cardState` - Saved state from the card (like current tab or filter, usually used when embedding).
- `urls` - URLs to other parts of parlameter (like assets, site, data, ...)
- ...

### ! Be careful !

Some data that cards use is also given in the query parameters (for example id, locale, template). It is tempting to get this data using `window.location.search` - but preferably avoid using it, expect for when you are **absolutely sure** the `window` object will only be called on client side - otherwise all cards will crash!

If you need these parameters it's better to add them to the `contextData` object that is constructed in server/render-card.js.

### Format of `cardData`

```json
{
  "url": "<the actual url from when the data was fetched>",
  "id": "<id specified in the card>",
  // data fetched from the url
  "data": {
    "results": { ... }
  },
  // if there was any error fetching data, otherwise false
  "error": { message, error, statusCode, code } || false
};
```

### Common mixin

The top-most card component needs to import the [`common`](../cards/_mixins/common.js) mixin. This sets up some data required for the template render and imports the `card-wrapper` you need as the main card component, that creates the main card frame.

### `cardInfo` property

The root component can have a `cardInfo` property that is used to tell information to the templating engine later.

```js
cardInfo: {
  doubleWidth: true,
},
```
